DMBA post added (#514)
brainglobe/brainglobe.github.io: docs/source/blog/duke-mouse-brain-atlas-added.md

---
blogpost: true

> date: August 16, 2026

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: August 18, 2026
```

[Mansour et al. (2025)](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.adq8089) introduced the Duke Mouse Brain Atlas (DMBA), a high-resolution 15 µm isotropic stereotaxic atlas of the adult mouse brain. The atlas combines magnetic resonance histology (MRH), diffusion MRI-derived contrasts, micro-CT, light sheet microscopy, and registered anatomical annotations in a common reference space.

The atlas is now available through BrainGlobe as `duke_mouse_15um`.

One useful feature of the DMBA is how it was built. The MRH data were acquired from perfusion-fixed specimens with the brains still in the skull. This makes the reference less affected by global or regional swelling, shrinkage, and deformation than atlases built after cranial dissection or conventional histological sectioning.

For BrainGlobe, the main reference image is the DMBA mean diffusivity template, and the annotation image uses the RCCFv3 labels supplied with the atlas data. RCCFv3 is the Duke team's reduced version of the Allen CCFv3 label set: related structures smaller than 0.1 mm<sup>3</sup> were grouped into larger anatomical regions, reducing registration noise from small regions that are difficult to align reliably.

> The BrainGlobe package includes 12 registered reference images. In addition to the main mean diffusivity template, the package includes AD, DWI, NQA, RD, FA, M0, M1, M2, M3, ISO, and unmasked mGRE. These complementary images can be useful for different anatomical questions because each contrast highlights different tissueproperties.

Reviewer: Could you explain what all these acronyms are? They won't mean much to anyone outside of the MRI world.

Author: Explanation added

> The BrainGlobe package includes 12 registered reference images. In addition to the main mean diffusivity template, the package includes AD, DWI, NQA, RD, FA, M0, M1, M2, M3, ISO, and unmasked mGRE. These complementary images can be useful for different anatomical questions because each contrast highlights different tissueproperties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BrainGlobe package includes 12 registered reference images. In addition to the main mean diffusivity template, the package includes AD, DWI, NQA, RD, FA, M0, M1, M2, M3, ISO, and unmasked mGRE. These complementary images can be useful for different anatomical questions because each contrast highlights different tissue properties.
```

![The 12 reference images included with the Duke Mouse Brain Atlas](./images/duke_mouse_12_references.gif)

**Figure 1. The 12 registered reference images included in the `duke_mouse_15um` atlas package.**

> Another practical feature is the stereotaxic grid information. In the source atlas, micro-CT scans of the skull were registered to the MRH reference, giving bregma and lambda landmarks in the same coordinate space as the brain. BrainGlobe includes combined grid templates at 0.2 mm and 1 mm spacing that show the location of bregma, which can help with stereotaxic targeting and electrophysiology trajectory planning.

Reviewer: More of a question for the packaging side of this, but I find the inclusion of these grids a bit weird, as they are very different to other atlas data in the API.

I think we should expand more here, because users may read "can help with ..." and rightfully assume that BrainGlobe will provide tooling for this, rather than just showing them an image.

Reviewer 2: we decided to remove these grids so this part of the blog can be removed

![Sagittal view of the Duke Mouse Brain Atlas with a 0.2 mm stereotaxic grid](./images/duke_mouse_sagittal_0_2mm_grid.png)

**Figure 2. Sagittal view of the Duke Mouse Brain Atlas with the 0.2 mm stereotaxic grid overlaid. Bregma is indicated by the crossing of the thicker grid lines.**

## Source and citation

> The source data are available from [Duke CIVMImageSpace](https://civmimagespace.civm.duhs.duke.edu/tp_item_detail.php/view/item_number=DMBA/set_id=315).

Reviewer: I think this can be removed, it's not relevant to users, as long as there is a citation.

Author: removed
